Genetic Algorithms: Search based optimization technique, based on genetics and natural selection.
Used to find optimal or near-optimal solutions.

Population -> chromosomes -> Gene -> Allele
Genotype: population in computation space
phenotype: population in Real world
Encoding is converting from phenotype to genotype
Decoding is converting from genotype to phenotype
Fitness Fucntion: Decides how good the solution is. Often the same as objective function.


Basic Structure: 

GA()
   initialize population
   find fitness of population
   
   while (termination criteria is reached) do
      parent selection
      crossover with probability pc
      mutation with probability pm
      decode and fitness calculation
      survivor selection
      find best
   return best
   
   
Population initialization: 
    Random initialization -> populate with random initializations. Random solutions drive the population to optimality.
    Heuristic initialization -> Don't do all generation by heuristics or diversity shall be less
Population Models: 
    Steady state GA: population doesn't increase. 2 parents -> 2 children
    Generational GA: Generate 'n' offsprings. Whole population is replaced by the offsprings after one iteration.

Fitness function: 
    Takes candidates as input and decides how good are these solutions. 
    Note that: in a lot computationally difficult problems it is easy to verify a correct solution but difficult to come with a correct solution.
    
    Fitness function should be easy to calculate.
    
Parent Selection: 
    Good parents produce good children. But care should be taken that an extremely good parent doesn't take over the entire population in a few iterations; as this leads to the solutions being close to one another in the solution space thereby leading to a loss of diversity.
        
        Maintaining a good diversity, in the population is extremely crucial for the success for the GA.
        This taking of the entire population be an extremely good population is is known as premature convergence.
        
        
    