Computer Networking ( Udacity Georgia Tech Online CN course, notes)

TO Read : The Design Philosophy of the DARPA Internet Protocols http://ccr.sigcomm.org/archive/1995/jan95/ccr-9501-clark.pdf

Goal Interconnectivity: IP is the narrow waist. all protocols above and below it must conform to it, so that different devices operating on different protocols can communicate among themselves.

Goal Survivability: "network works even if devices fail"
    Achieved by : 1) replication
                  2) Fate Sharing - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fate-sharing 
                  If a device fails all the state with it should be lost. (NAT violates it)

Goal Heterogeneity: TCP and UDP protocols 2) "Best effort" delivery
Goal Distributed Management: eg DNS and BGP. You take care of nodes below yourselves.
Other goals: COST, Ease of Attachment, Accountability.

End to End Argument: the network should be dumb and end application should be intelligent. 
e.g. Error handling in file transfer, end-to-end encryption, 
NAT violates end-to-end principle.  

SWITCHING: 
ARP: broadcast the IP, the machine with that particular IP will unicast with the MAC.
HUB: Problems: Too much collision and hence greater latency, Too much flooding packets, One misconfigured ruins the whole party.
SWITCH: Auto-configuring, layer 2(ethernet), Forwarding is fast.
    If there are cyles in toplogy, then it can lead to "loops" and "broadcast storms"
    Solution: Spanning Tree: Create a tree which contains all the switches. Instead of flooding, the switch will forward the packets along the spanning tree.
    Constructing a spanning tree: 
        1) Elect a root. ( The switch with smallest is elected by the fellow switches)
        2) At each switch, Exlude the link which is not a part of the shortest path to the root.
    Message Format: ('The node being claimed as root', 'distance of the particular node sending this message from the claimed root', 'the node sending this message')
ROUTERS: 

Buffer Sizing: How much buffering do switches and routers need? (2T * C), T is the round trip time between src and dest, and c is the bits/sec capacity of the bottleneck link.
Problem: 2T * C can be too much, increasing the cost; and more queing delay hence delayed feedback about congestion
Read more about this: Buffer sizing for a TCP sender.

ROUTING: the process by which nodes discover where to forward packets
    Routing inside an Autonomous system -> Intradomain routing; among different Autonomous systems (ASes)-> Interdomain routing
    An Autonomous system consists of Nodes, edges. Nodes are also called PoPs (Points of Presence)
    Intradomain routing is of two types: Distance Vector, Link State
    Distance Vector routing: 
        Each node sends its routing table to its neighbours.
        Routers compute cost to each destination based on shortest available path.
        DIstributed version of Bellman-Ford algorithm.
       Problem: Count to infinity problem. ( If you can't explain it to yourself then google it)
       Solution: Poision Reverse.
    RIP : Routing Information Protocol
        * Unit cost edges
        * Infinity value is 16 (Hence max nodes can be 16)
        * Table refreshes every 30 seconds or when updates occur
        * Updates sent to all neighbours except the one that sent the update. (Split Horizon)
        * Max refresh interval is 180 seconds
        ** Problem: Slow convergence.
        ** Count to infinity problem. 
        ** There can only be 16 nodes.
    Link State Routing: e.g. OSPF, Intermediate System-Intermediate System (IS-IS)
        * Uses Dijkstra's Shortest path algorithm
        Google for more explanation.
    BGP: 
        * Route Selection Process: to select a 'best route' from multiple routes to the same destination.
            1) Prefer higher "local preference"
            2) Shortest AS path length
            3) Multi-exit discrimator (MED) 
            4) Shortest IGP path. ("hot potato" routing) 
            5) Tiebreak. use the most stable route or the router with the smallest router ID
    e-BGP: The protocol through which ASes send "route advertisements" across other ASes
        * BGP route attributes (Destination IP, Next Hop, ASes in between)
    i-BGP: The protocol that is used to advertise routes inside an AS for external destinations 
    
    IGP : routes inside an AS for internal destinations
    iBGP: routes inside an AS for external destinations 
    
    Interdomain routing business model. (Interesting, google for more)
        * Route Ranking :=> Customer > Peer routes > Provider routes.
        * Route Filtering/Export :=> From customer - to everyone
                                     From Peers - to customers only
                                     From provider - to customers only
        Read about "persistent route oscillations in interdomain routing"
        
Naming, Addressing and Forwarding:
    Classfull Addressing, Class A, B, C
    CIDR: Benifits -> Efficiency, Finer Granualirity, etc. etc.
    Multihoming: 
    CIDR uses 'longest prefix match (LPM)' for routing.
    LPM can be done by 'single bit trie', but that would take a lot of memory lookups. 
    or use CAM and TCAM as alternative solutions in hardware. CAM allows only exact matches in O(1).
    
Routing: 
    * A copy of routing table is stored at every "line card" of the router.
    * Crossbar switching: 
        - Every input port has connection to every output port. 
        - During each time slot, each input is connected to zero or one outputs.
        Advantage: Parallelism
        Disadvantage: Need a scheduling algorithm
    * Max-min Fairness for achiving fairness in the scheduling algorithm.
    * How to achieve Max-min fairness; 
        - Round Robin - Problem: small guys stuck behind bulky ones.
        - Bit-by-bit scheduling - Problem : feasibility
        - Fair Queueing - Service te packets according to their finish time.
        
DNS : 
    * Record Types: 
        - A : Name -> IP Address
        - NS : Name -> Authoritative nameserver, "referrals"
        - MX : Name -> Mail Server 
        - CNAME: Canonical name, an alias to other domain name
        - PTR : IP -> domain name
        - AAAA: Name -> IPv6 address
    * Explore the 'dig' command
    
Congestion Control:
    Congestion Collapse is caused by 
        - Spurious retransmissions of packets in flight. (Sender doesn't get ACK in time and hence retransmits while the packet is still on its way.)
        - Undelivered packets.
    Goals of congestion control: - Efficient and Fair usage of resources. - Avoid congestion collapse.
    Two approches:  (1) End-to-end (2) Network assisted - routers provide feedback about the rates the end-systems should be sending at.
    1) End-to-end : TCP congestion control: Additive-inc-Multiplicative-decrease
    2) Rate based: 
    TCP Incast: http://bradhedlund.com/2011/05/01/tcp-incast-and-cloud-application-performance/
        - solutions: Using finer granularity timers and fewer ACK
    Barrier synchronization and idle time: "A synchronization barrier enables multiple threads to wait until all threads have all reached a particular point of execution before any    thread continues.Synchronization barriers are useful for phased computations, in which threads executing the same code in parallel must all complete one phase before moving on to the next."
    
    TCP not fit for streaming: 1) Protocol overhead 2) retransmission may not be useful for lost packets 3) Slowing down after packet loss
    UDP : Features: 1) No retransmissions 2) No ACK 3) Less overhead 4) No sending rate adaption
    YouTube streaming: Uses HTTP/TCP rather than UDP. Google about this for more.
    Skype : Peer-to-peer technology. Google for more.
    
Rate limiting and traffic control:
For : traffic control and ensuring that flows do not exceed rate. E.g. Audio 
    constant bit rate (CBR) source and Variable bit rate (VBR) source. E.g. Video and Data transfer.
    Leaky bucket traffic shaper: 
    (r, T) traffic shaping
    Tocken Bucket
    Power Boost : by Comcast. Allows sender to send at a higher rate for some period of time.
        - capped and uncapped power boost
    Buffer bloat: 
    
    Network measurement: Active and passive management
        - Active: eg. Ping, tracert: Inject additional traffic into the network to measure various characteristics.
        - passive: Collect packets, flow stats etc of traffic already on the network. eg. Logs, packet traces, flow stats. SNMP
        SNMP : Management Information Base (MIB) is polled and queried for particular inforamtion.
        Packet monitoring: tcpdump, wireshark, ethereal
        Flow monitoring: 

Traffic engineering: Process of reconfiguring the network in response to changing traffic loads, to achieve some operational goal.

Network Security: 

Internet worms: Spreads automatically - Code that propogates and replicates over a network. 
Internet virus: Spreads by manual action. "infection" of an existing program that results in the modifacation of behaviour
Types of virus: 
	- parasitic: infects executable files.
	- memory resident: infects running programs.
	- Boot-sector: spreads when the system boots.
	- Polymotphic: encrypt part of virus programs using randomly generated keys.
